OK, so we have user creation, both in authentication and in Firestorm.
So what we need to do now is we need to implement this, get user data that we're going to be calling
from here.
So basically inside the user creation, but also we're going to be calling it if the user is already
signed in at the start of the application.
OK, so let's implement that.
So first of all, we're going to set the in-progress the value flag to true.
OK, and we're going to access the collection of users.
Dot document of UID usage is the one passed in the function call Dot Get.
And then we have add on success listener and we have add on savior listener.
Let's implement the failure because it's simpler.
We have an exception here and we can say handle exception with e x c.
And the message cannot retrieve user data and then in progress, the value equals false.
OK.
So we have that now let's implement the on success.
So the success gives us a document snapshot that we can convert into our user data so we can have valid
user equals it not to object.
And here we pass the data type user data.
OK.
We need to import that.
So that should fix our problem.
And then once we have that, we're going to say user data.
The value is going to be user and in progress, the value is going to be false.
Now, since we don't see anything different in our application, if we have this success, we can have
a notification here.
What is the name of that variable pop up notification?
Pop up notification dot value is going to be user data retrieved.
Successfully.
And we need to wrap that in an event.
OK, so we have our pop up notification now.
We need to also do a check at the start to see whether we are signing or not.
So in the in it block here we're going to have valid current user is going to be us dot current user.
Then signed in.
Not value.
This is going to be current user different from North.
So if the user is not more than we are saying, then otherwise no.
And then current user dot question mark thought you are the question mark, but let if we have a UID,
then we can get user data with UIDAI.
And we need to mark this as new this year.
All right, so what this will do basically when the system starts up and instantiate our view model,
it will check whether or not we have a user.
Keep in mind that authentication so Firebase authentication remembers if a user is signing or not.
OK, so we have that here given to us without any effort on our part.
Once we have that, we can set the value of signed in.
And if we have a signed in user with a UID, then we can get the data, OK, which is the function that
we've just implemented.
And if we get the user data successfully, then we get a pop up notification.
OK, so with that in place, let's go ahead and run the application and see if it works.
So user data retrieved successfully is exactly what I was expecting, so the authentication is already
signed in.
OK.
This will retain a current user and the current user has a new I.D. So we automatically do a get user
data.
However, if we do auth dot, sign out, let's go ahead and check that upon creation.
We also get this pop up notification.
OK, so let's run this code again.
So what I'm expecting here is to go through the whole process and call the method here.
OK?
And that will have user data retrieved successfully again.
OK, so now let's create a username.
Michael, let's say at Gmail dot com and password one two three four five six.
OK, so let's go ahead and sign up.
And let's see if we get a pop up eventually.
User data retrieved successfully, so it has gone through the whole process successfully, and we get
user data in our application.
So let's have a look in the backend API.
We have Michael with the user I.D. and the authentication is correct, we have at gmail.com.
And that is because we've set this sign out.
So let's do it bit of clean up before we end, I'm just going to remove this.
Well, you know what?
I'm just going to comment it out just to make sure that we have it if we need it later on and then I
want to remove this pop up notification.
OK, we don't need this in our actual code.
All right.
So that's it for this video.
I think at this point, we have a a sign up functionality correctly.
It doesn't really go anywhere.
So once we actually sign up, the application doesn't take us to the next screen.
But we are confident now by looking in the database and by getting our pop up notifications that the
user can sign up.
So what I would like to do next is I would like to create the on login function, which is going to
be similar to this one, but slightly different.
So on log in and we need to be able to move between various fragments, right?
So here in sign up, if I click the button here, the text, this is going to take me to the log in
screen and the login screen will have a similar one to take me back to sign up so we can do that jump
back and forth between the screens.
All right.
So we will do all of that in the next few videos.